---
source_url: https://docs.appian.com/suite/help/25.3/cc-25.1.1.0/cc-low-code-configurations.html
original_path: cc-25.1.1.0/cc-low-code-configurations.html
version: "25.3"
title: "Low-Code Configurations for Connected Claims Studio"
page_id: "cc-25.1.1.0/cc-low-code-configurations"
section: "Overview"
tags: ["appian","docs","v25.3"]
---


Free cookie consent management tool by [TermsFeed](https://www.termsfeed.com/)

# Low-Code Configurations for Connected Claims Studio

Share

Share via

LinkedIn

Reddit

Email

Copy Link

* * *

Print

<table><tbody><tr><td><i class="fa fa-info-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i></td><td>The capabilities described on this page are included in Appian's <a href="/suite/help/25.3/Appian_Tiers.html">advanced and premium capability tiers</a>. Usage limits may apply.</td></tr></tbody></table>

**Note:**  All Connected Claims documentation applies to the functionality and configurations for the Connected Claims solution.

## Overview

Within Connected Claims Studio, you can easily create and configure most functionality for your claims management apps without leaving Studio or using any code. Some configurations and certain activities, however, can only be done in Designer.

This page is intended for low-code developers and provides an overview of the configurations and activities to do in Designer for claims management apps.

## Connected Claims Studio objects

When you create a new claims category, claims type, or [form](cc-creating-forms.html) in Studio, we automatically generate the underlying objects for them in Designer. Basic configurations and functionality for these objects can be done through Studio, but you can also make changes to the objects in Designer to make more complex configurations and robust claims management apps.

**Objects generated by Studio**

| When you create a… in Studio | We create a… in Designer |
| --- | --- |
| Claims category | [Record type](../Record_Type_Object.html) for the claims category and relationship to the All Claims record type that comes out-of-the-box with Studio |
| Claims type | Record type and [relationship](../record-type-relationships.html) to the claims category record type |
| Choice list data field | Record type and [relationship](../record-type-relationships.html) to the relevant record type |
| Intake or edit form | [Interface](../interface_object.html) for each form |
| Summary page | [Interface](../interface_object.html) for your Claim summary view |

In addition to these objects, we also generate database scripts to go with all generated record types for claims categories and claims types.

### Configuring generated objects

In Designer, you can make additional configurations and edits to the objects generated by Studio, just like you can configure any Appian objects.

To learn about configuring the record types used for your claim types, claim categories, and [choice list data fields](../build-best-data-fabric.html#store-lookup-data-in-a-separate-record-type), see our [records content](../Record_Type_Object.html) or check out the tutorial for [record types with a database as a source](../Records_Tutorial.html). Note that the choice list options and whether or not each option is active/inactive can be edited directly in Studio, without needing to be configured in Designer.

To learn about configuring the interfaces used for your intake and edit forms, see our [interface content](../interface_overview.html) or check out the [interface tutorial](../SAIL_Tutorial.html). Note that interfaces generated by Studio use functions that are specific to Studio and cannot be used in interfaces for other apps. To learn more, check out [Functions for Connected Claims Studio](cc-functions.html)

#### Common low-code configurations of generated interfaces

There are some configurations to forms that you can only make to the interfaces in Designer. Some are more common, like adding a **Save Draft** button to forms to allow users to save their progress. Some are more use-case specific and are meant to address unique organizational needs, such as adding additional interfaces as pages in the intake and edit form wizards.

##### **Save forms as drafts**

Depending on your claims management process, you may want to allow users the flexibility to save their progress on creating and editing forms as drafts so that they can continue them later. To allow users to save drafts in a form:

1.  Open the generated interface for your form.
2.  In the interface expression, add two parameters to the `a!studio_wizardLayout()` function: _allowSaveDraft_ and _onSaveDraft_.
3.  For _allowSaveDraft_, set the value to `true`.
4.  For _onSaveDraft_, define a list of saves to execute when the `Save Draft` button is clicked.

##### **Add additional form pages**

Some organizations may have specific guidelines or use-cases that require them to include additional interfaces in the wizards for the intake and edit forms. For example, your organization may be required to show an interface with a standardized disclaimer or set of instructions to a user before they fill out a specific form, or maybe you need to include a confirmation interface at the end of a form. Whatever content you need to include, these interfaces can be added both before and after the intake or edit forms created in Studio. When you call these additional interfaces into the interfaces that format the form, they appear as pages in the wizard complete with page names included in the milestone bar.

To add additional pages to a wizard and milestone bar for a form:

1.  Open the wrapper interface for your claim type. This interface is responsible for determining when and whether to show the additional interfaces or the generated interfaces.
2.  In the expression for the wrapper interface, call the additional interfaces before or after the `a!studio_wizardLayout()` function.
3.  Open the wizard display interface for your claim type. This interface is responsible for constructing the form wizard.
4.  In the expression for the wizard display interface, add two parameters (_leadingPageNames_ and _followingPageNames_) to the `a!studio_wizardLayout()` function.
    -   If you added the additional interfaces before the form configured in Studio, use the _leadingPageNames_ parameter.
    -   If you added the additional interfaces after the form configured in Studio, use the _followingPageNames_ parameter.
5.  Enter the page name for each additional interface as the values for the relevant parameters above.

To learn more about the wizard layout function in Studio, see [Functions for Connected Claims Studio](cc-functions.html).

### Configuring out-of-the-box objects

Many objects, such as interfaces, process models, translation sets, and record types come out-of-the-box with Connected Claims Studio. These can be configured and customized as needed.

Connected Claims Studio comes with a [translation set](../translation-set-object.html) and automatically uses [translation strings](../translation-set-object.html#terms-to-know) for all end user text. In addition to providing a head-start on translating your app into new locales, translation sets and translation strings make it easy for you to update terms used throughout your apps to best fit your business terminology. For example, if you refer to a "claim" as a "request" or a "case", you can search in the translation set to find all the places where "claim" is mentioned and update every instance of the term to use your preferred term at one time.

## Deploying Connected Claims Studio objects and apps

Like other Appian objects and apps, objects generated by Studio can be deployed to target environments through your existing deployment pipeline. We automatically [package up](../prepare-deployment-packages.html) all of the Studio generated objects, so that they are all in one place and ready to deploy when you are.

This package is called **Studio Generated Objects** and contains the latest modified objects and corresponding database scripts. The package is named based on when it was created. If a package exceeds 50 attached database scripts, another package will be created and any newly modified objects or associated scripts will be placed there instead of the previous package.

## Claims management security

Connected Claims Studio apps use a combination of groups and object security to assign permission levels to users, which can only be configured in Designer. For more information, see [Security in Connected Claims Studio](cc-configure-security.html).

## Feedback

Was this page helpful?

SHARE FEEDBACK

Loading...